after well over three months of constant
Israeli bombardment in Gaza all eyes are
on a courthouse more than 3,000 kilm
away in the Netherlands South Africa
wants the un's top legal body the
international court of justice to order
an immediate Ceasar as part of its
interim judgment expected in a matter of
hours when a case being brought under
the genocide convention if it goes
against Israel there's little doubt the
country's leaders would ignore it and
that they would refuse to comply with
the Court's orders but it would be a
huge blow both politically and
diplomatically not just to Israel but
also to its main backer the Biden
Administration the US president is
already facing mounting political
pressure at home in the UN Security
Council on three occasions the US has
used its veto to block an immediate
ceasefire but would Biden be prepared to
veto again this time time in defiance of
the world's top Court well the Dilemma
is that it puts him in a position of
contradiction because through other uh
conflicts including Ukraine most
recently we've seen these calls for the
maintenance of the rules-based
international order the highest level of
maintaining that order is uh the the
directives of the court so if America uh
finds in a position of contradiction
between what they've said on other
conflicts and what they're saying on
Israel then this is a huge dilemma for
the administration of course if the
ruling doesn't go South Africa's way
it's a very different story expect the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu and his cabinet to say their
military campaign has been Vindicated
and that there are no war crimes
obviously that's almost certainly not
the case but it would mean that this
court has decided that it can't take
action under the very high threshold
demanded by the genocide
convention other courts including the
international criminal court also based
here in this city could also bring
charges related both to war crimes and
crimes against humanity James Bay Al
jazer the
ha make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al
jazer